expectation
we know how to write a complete spring boot program with web servies
write unit testing for the same and deploy it in the cloud.

today

1. spring boot application
2. application of our event handling story
3. database interaction in java..

Monday
4. web services front.
Tuesday
5. Wednesday.. junit...

biggest challenge in any decision making is how you look at decision
over a period of time..


spring or spring boot advantages.

1. loose coupling ( dependency injection and inversion of control)
dao layer in first phase using raw jdbc
second phase using spring based jdbc.. jdbc template
third phase no question of using jdbc directly using orm.

2.  x+ spring  = x become easier..

3. aspect oreitned programming.. ( security, transactions...)

what is process we are taking to write code..

spring boot..
1. how do you recognize a spring boot application.
look at pom.xml file and look at the pacakges which you are importing..

spring boot usage does not mean I wont use spring..
rather it means along with spring i will spring boot related stuff.
advantage..

never insult an architecture by linking  it only with some technology..

always read from official things.. first 

any product tells please get addicted to me...
as a user we decide the tradeoff as to how much get addicted to it..

spring is a product or spring is a standard?

standard means I dont like this, ok you use another one.
RDBMS is a standard.. i dont like MySQL ok uuse sql server

it is a product..I dont like this, dont use this..



spring is not a replacement for anything
it is use it with anything.

you were earlier using x now use it with spring to x becomes easier 
this is English.. this we have to realize thru code..

Spring boot is spring made easier.

we are using annotation given by X
we know the benefit...
most important our code should interact with that given by X.

if you remember day 1... we talked about something called classpath.
spring boot is not doing any miracle it is looking in the classpath
what all classes are present, and based on that it will autoconfigure..

any setting which is one time we should relax how to do that settings..



welcome to spring boot.
sprng boot will see what all libraries are there in the classpath
and it will configure the libraries accordingly..


whenever it is other person design, in that case If i start doing
"thinking" without "finding out".. just a way to waste time..

in spring boot application if you put something in the dependency
based on the thing you put it will be autoconfigured..
example if I put web dependency, web server will be autoconfigured.
if i put a databse dependency, databse thing will be autoconfigured..
dont trust on this.. we will see thru code..

if we tell science, hell or heaven does not matter ,repeatability does..

quick summary
1. spring boot.. just tell spring simplified. how.. you can reduce configuration..
2. ok all this English is good how are you going to prove me this..
2.1 take two spring boot projects.
one without web dependency  -- run and terminate..
one with web dependency  --continue to run, web server is running..
3. ok what are you going to spring boot..
same old thing i did with spring..

create objects
wire it
and tell hey give me the object.

never trust anybody who tells I understood the problem.

those who remember spring theory..

1. create the object.
2. wire it
3. get the object from spring..-- ac.getBean...

event driven way...

we are telling spring hey look after you created the event let me know..  ==event

a person who is defining the function does not know who is going to call
the function should not define the function.

ok core java will take revenge on me..

class A implements i1
{
public void f1() //100% sure if i define f1, i wont be teh caller of f1.
{

}

}

those who are not clear about architecture, enjoy entertainment everyday,..


in spring boot.. what we should do... follow some conventions...
create  package called x
you put a class which contains main function...
ensure that annotation uses @springBootapplication, uses the spring class
SpringApplication.run(give classname which uses @springBootApplication annotation)

in the package called x
create two classes X and Y.
use @component , use @autowired...


relax and just focus on are you sure which object spring has got with it..
we know
A object
B object
is there.
we know architecture so we tell B is wired inside A..
ok...

how do we get the A object and call its function or B object call its function..
in spring boot.


use this interface called commandline runner.. what does it do...
you are telling spring boot hey spring boot after you created the object
and wired, do something for me... you mention this something inside
the run method..

in the class @Autowired which ever object you want to use
and use that object inside the run method..

first thing.
we did sprng boot application without talking about any http..

simple checklist.

1. spring application, did we create two clases wire it and get the object.
1.1 xml
1.2 annotations..

2. do the same with spring boot application
get the object,,, try using commandline runner and get it.. dont try
the old style.












telescope point.
when an architecture is there, people who write poems... will create misery..

irritating thing when a person tells i need a leg only then I can make a shoes..
insult of architecture..

old story
kids are afraid of attending interviews
adults are afraid of conducting interviews..

when confused stick with basics..


I want object from spring.. which object you want...

I want presentation. i want service ok i want dao ok..

Database...
why use database? instead of a file..

answer is database gives us physical and logical independence of data..
which a file does not..

database ,, unit of storage is table.. codd rule..
when the table is changed, altered..old data is not lost...

database..
database server
database.
table
dml command
select commands
trigger
sequence
dinosaur should know... stored procedure or stored function..
views

why database... physical and logical independence of data..
you have table with emp, with empno, empname and email
we put 100 rows into it.
one day project changed and told emp should have phoneno also
ok great we altered table put phone no.old rows will still be tehre...

database server.. ip address.
databse name ... multiple databses can run on the database server..
table.. basic unit of storage..
1. insert 
2. update
3. select 
4. courageously delete 
5. constraints, primary key, foreign key...

coming to java and learning database concept is expensive.
we should know database concepts before..

commit
and then immediately I rollback..


if i dropped the table. if i want the table back, what command should i use
commit or rollback drop a table...ddl command..commit and rollback will not
work on ddl commands.. dml commands... 

insert a row into the table... when it will fail..
kids answer, table is not found, column name mismatch... kids answers.
adults answer should be only one.. constraint violation...

update command and delte command.
constraint violation, where condition failure has to be checked.

quick summary
1. spring boot also learn to write core java code first..

take a break 11.16 AM




1. try the projects from  from v2soft\pleaseworkij folder
2. try the project springbootexample and see whether it work.
3. convert the calculator program and loan app into a spring boot program
and see whether it works..
4. install MySQL and see whether you are able to see the command prompt
of MySQL and see some databases and some tables in the database.





















