database part how to approach in spring and spring boot.
web services part..


As of now the expectation is.
people know how to write a core java program move it to spring or spring boot.
spring or spring boot...

1. do we know architecture.
2. do  we know which object spring needs to create and wire.
3. ok are we asking spring to create objects and wire ( xml or annotation)
4. how do you get this object created by spring in your code..

code base.  need to practice..
1. calculator
2. loan code...
3. archcode  ( cuser..)
4. Task...

Database.
coming to spring and learning database concepts bad idea..
we should know database concepts before we touch database programming..

we know that
1.database server
2. database. ( physical and logical independence of data )
3. table..
insert -- constraint violation
update
delete
constraint violation +  where condition failure..(logical error programmer should handle it)


select single select -- query based on primary key
select multiple select  -- query based on non primary key...
4. constraint
5. transactions.. commit and rollback
6. trigger.
7. sequence.
8. stored procedure...

there is a topic called X
ask 
X is objective--every can agree
X is subjective.  -- let everybody have an opinion no problems..
we dont need have strong opinion on subjective things..

when in doubt assume X is subjective..


practically...subjective.
how are you viewing the database
how are you seeing the table contents...

a programmer should know table structure ... that is minimum to work on the table


insert,update or whatever you do with database happens in the DAO layer...

in design.. we have 1000 rules but we should some basic rules..

1. know the tradeoff.
2. basis for layering... ( interface design)
3. consistency in the usage..
4. all other rules..

insert command.

input to the function return type from the function of the dao layer.
easy thing thinking of the name of the function
difficult thing is thinking what the function should return or take as input.

	
Status	insertUser(CUser user) throws DatabaseNotResponding

   true =-= insrt succeeded
   false = constraint violation
if you get the exception DatabaseNotREspondingException . then it database is not running
as expected.

any kid hates creating new classes.. because he is afraid of treating like a data type..



single select.

CUser getUserBasedonIdFromDB(String userid) 

multi select.
List<CUser> getUserBasedonSomeNonPrimarykeycritera(int pincode)


how to deal with database..

1.intent...if X is easy way of doing it, and Y is a difficult way of doing it.
prefer X.
I wont prefer X because it makes things ( slow  .. performance... when people tell performance
ask them to relax and tell let us measure ... words never mean performance)


using this moral science word called "best practices" is a never performance..


databse.
1. raw jdbc.. (pathetic nobody uses it)
2. jdbc +spring .. (ok some of them use it... but again not preferred)
3. orm ,JPA   --preferred in most projects.. but again some of them may not prefer..

how does the code work.

1. some how get in touch with the database... ( company specific way of doing it)
( you talk thru os or talk directly with database...) -- Connection getting.
you have to load a driver... Driver dictates how you talk with the database..
you should observe two things.
1. driver which it is using.
2. URL.. this will have database information

I got connection it means.. that we are able to contact a particular database
on a particular databse server...

Statement.. or its cousins.. are used to issue sql command go the database and get feedback.

Statement
Prepared Statement -- preferred
callableStatement  -- preferred to call stored procedure...

get feedback..
select command you get a feedback via ResultSet...Cursor
if Cursor is empty it means that no rows where found.
else you have process the cursor.. 
take each row convert that into an object and put that object into a list..
return the List..

connection opening
connection closing
statement opening
statement closing
all are generic things.. that means independent of project. so what spring tells
hey relax you dont need to do this... I will take care...

what we need to be bothered about...
1 . what sql command we plan to issue
2. what we plan to do with the feedback...

while doing all this things, spring will tell one secret thing..
hey get addicted to me....spring will have  opinion on how to do things..
we should tell ok spring that is your opinion opinion means subjective things..

if you want create an object of somebody else class. first thing we should do is
look at documentation especially constructor documentation, without looking
at it trying to create object bad idea..


what is spring opinion?
1.to do database programming, you need something called JdbcTemplate..
2. we have to create this object and start using its funtions..
3. to tell jdbc template what is our database.. we have to use something
called Datasource... datasource is an interface. so use some implementation
class... which one find out which your project uses and use it..

phase 1, did you get jdbc template object properly based on your database.
if yes, great go to next phase else relax and get the jdbctemplate object..

I am creating a JDBCTemplate object, means we are in spring..

if we are using spring boot , jdbcTemplate object will get created automatically
we dont need to create it..

welcome to spring boot. spring boot autoconfigures lot of things depending


on what library is found in your classpath..
web library.. http server is configured..
database librarty.. jdbctemplate or its equivalents are autoconfigured..

we have not worked on spring jdbc template so instead of writing code in architecture
start writing orphan code.. (code that works without any architecture)

syntax is a function of time
concept is not.

whenever i get slapped because of core java I should tell sprng boot problem..

when problems comes differentiate whether it is because of user or independent of user
and ensure we communicate the same...

what is BeanPropertyRowMapper
simple answer hey look it is a inbuilt spring based class so why are you asking me
open the documentation and see it..

have no details of the problem first collect the details then solving will happen.

BeanPropertyRowMapper.

you have class with variables let x, y, and z.
you have  table those columns should be x,y and z.
then it will transfer content of databse cursor each row into an object.

standard problem of design...
before doing a bad tell good things and then do a bad thing..


1. springpoc project.. you see pom.xml file..
2. in your spring project, copy the databasepoc package..
3. make it work.. after checking database information relevant to your system..
4. copy paste any random jdbc template example from google and prove it works
in your system..
dont focus on architecture just focus on jdbctemplate usage..












