there is a model called as Task taskid,taskame,priority, status.
task id is an int
taskname is a string
priority is an int
status is a Boolean..

there is a table called Task..
it already has some rows..

1. get Task information based on Task id
2. update Task ( priority , status can be updated)

1. you have spring jdbc template that we need to get.
2. for this put the dependancies.
3. start using the spring jdbc template methods...
4. when we are doing select command, think of this concept called RowMapper.
which will map row into an object... BeanPropertyRowMapper
5. we can write our own custom class.. which implements RowMapper..

what is proof that we did by using spring...
1. we created the Datasource and we created the jdbc template object..

No we will use Spring boot...
jdbc template will be automatically by spring boot.



List l =new ArrayList();// we are telling I dont care for what is ArrayList, linkedlist.. depends
on need, my project needs List..


spring boot program on jdbc template.

spring boot another opinion.. it will have own views how to do things..

Framework = opinion.. == challenge lies in... generalizing so that we dont get addicted
to any framework..

any database project.. we should try to find out how does the project
come to know about our database..


properties file.. typically used for configuration, today you have lot of options..
yaml... xml way of doing things at the end of day it is just a configuration

properties.. map with key and value both as strings..


Patience.. for what.

1. which dependancies to put in spring boot.
2. how to tell spring boot which database we are using.
3. knowing that spring boot gives jdbc template automatically.
4. patiently checking jdbctemplate was autowired..

we use spring boot along with spring framework... it means we reduce
configuration time.
whatever theory you learn in spring will never go a waste..


web services.. same thing again..

ok we talked with database.. by using spring, and spring boot..
code will not change, only how you get jdbc template will change...


ORM ... JPA.

what is ORM expad Object Relational Mapping..
ORM is a superset... you can do orm in any programming language.
.net
python
javascript
java

JPA .. java persistence API.. ORM standard in java 
Hiberante... JPA product 

any company must know who its revenue is coming.. why are customers paying it
if confused on this.. then company will have lot of non stop entertainment..

Intent first language next..
I want to act like open source.but secretly I am complaining that how to make money
big conflict.. products will suffer.. who company had  this disease.. Red Hat
JBoss.. that company once upon time made HIbernate..

Apache..

how to deal with database in an orm based way... very common in projects.. I am assuming
your company uses this way...

what do we do in orm...

Spring boot way dealing with JPA ( easiest..  preferred way ) --X
spring way of doing Y  
raw jpa code.. Z

effort
 X  < Y < Z if our intent is to solve customers problems we prefer X..

no I want to do things by Z only ok.. do it.. but first tell why you want to do it by Z...
justify it..

age old rule in design..
all rules can be violated nothing wrong.. but before violation justify why you are violating
the rule..

when i telling you this.. remember opinion and product is secretly telling dont use anything
independently.. use it along with me only ... thereby you get addicted to me..

products  == addiction

JDBC is a standard
spring jdbc is product


database part.

1. raw jdbc  ( have not shown)
2. jdbctemplate with spring 
3. jdbc template with spring boot.
4. jpa with spring boot.  ( preferred...)
5. jpa with spring.
6. raw jpa
	

I have a doubt on dao
I have a doubt on service layer
I have a doubt on presentation layer
can we write a code in an isolated way to clarify doubt on that layer only...



you have to give the database dialect so that framework can optimize queries needed
for tht particular database..


how do you create a new version of sthe software. if no anything keep change configuration names...
welcome to versions of frameworks..


we will take 9.50AM and join back..







Try this program

there is a model called as Task taskid,taskame,priority, status.
task id is an int
taskname is a string
priority is an int
status is a Boolean..

there is a table called Task..
it already has some rows..

1. get Task information based on Task id
2. update Task ( priority , status can be updated)

https://spring.io/guides/gs/relational-data-access
try this program and convert the database usage to MySQL usage
























