yesterday story.

1. I had entertainment in setup of the properties file and spring maven
project was giving problem what was good news.. since I had a problem
I did  not go writing further any code.. all these problems will get resolved
in real life because somebody else would have already a project..

2. in problem hell or heaven does not matter, repeatability matters..


3. intent first and language next..
if intent is repeatability.. then it is better to have a checklist
than trust our "instinct" to solve the problem..

4. until I open other person code.. i wont know whether i know technology
or not..

generalize your learning.. we want to reduce remembering things..

List<Object[]> splitUpNames = Arrays.asList("John Woo", "Jeff Dean", "Josh Bloch", "Josh Long").stream()
        .map(name -> name.split(" "))
        .collect(Collectors.toList());

process a datastructure
intermediate operations
collect the results.
while doing this you dont change the content of the datastructure  any way...


splitUpNames.forEach(name -> log.info(String.format("Inserting customer record for %s %s", name[0], name[1])));

old style and old school thinking.. i see a function, dont assume i know the function
i read the documentation..

Lamda expression.
they are creating an object of a class which implements an interface.
remember in java

f1(x);
x has to be an object of a class.
x has to be an object of a class which implements an interface
x is a primitive type.. ie int, short.....
apart from this x cannot be having anything else...

learning is non deterministic..

I know all things but i dont know folder structure ok nice entertainment..

in all this process our day  1 theory.. tolerate uncertainty and lower the cost of failure..






JPA examples.. telescope... why...

1. we have a problem to solve (X)

1.1 for X have identified the models and service functions... ( input, return type, i know
meaning of failure, i know meaning of success)

1.2 we identified database part and did the databse thing..

1.1 or 1.2 we were using spring or spring boot.

show patience and show

1.1 and 1.2 is working..

if a model is mapped to database table. model becomes entity class.


yesterday sin i commited.
copy pasting things from notepad of windows is pathetic.. notepad of windows
is a  notepad.. it is not great texteditor...

ok we have layers.
presentation x
service y
dao. z

which layer has got minimum lines of code... it is 100% z. dao layer...
dao layer will almost have no lines of code why framework will take care, because the job
is generic.

we can learn design patterns to generalize our understanding of frameworks rather
than telling other people I know design patterns.. intent issue...

proxy design pattern..
I think x is doing the job but X is not doing y is doing the job..

while doing JPA with spring boot..
we will just write an interface... implementation class we will not write who writes
it... spring will write it. i wont know the classname also.. or rather I dont need
to know the classname also.. why.. welcome to the power of interface..


List l =new ArrayList();
I dont care for arrayList..


JPA mechanism.
we have to select the entity.. typically from a Model..

1. tell it is a entity  @Entity
2. tell which is primary key for the entity @Id or @composite key
3. create an interface.




when people write this kind of code in java it is a sin.. 1947 story..

private String username,password,email;


class extends class.  (product extend a product)
interface extends interfaces..  ( standard extends another standard)


Performance should be measured by data and not adjectives...
helmet called "best practices" is a sin...

println... what is it it is IO function... ever since dinosaur were programming
IO has never improved, IO is always bottleneck..

//approach 1  --this should be slow
for(int i=o;i <3; i++)
   system.out.println(i);

//approach 2 --should be faster
StringBuilder s =new StringBuilder();
for(int i=0; i < 3; i++)
   sb.append(i);
System.out.println(sb);

how much time are you saving...if you are saving 3 nano seconds..


suddenly some one will come and tell .. hey look jdbctemplate is faster
when compared jpa ok.. let us measure and see what is tradeoff..

not doing unnecessary thing is a good way to improve performance..


what did we do in coding.

1. in the model class, converted that to an eTntity. by using two annotations
@Entity
@id
we can use more also...

2.we wrote an interface.. remember the object of the class which impelments the interface.
is created by spring 

3. it is our day1 on jpa.. ok so dont assume things work, check..

when we see ready made function being used.. not opening documentation and assuming
about the function is a sin...

save.. save and updating..

insert.. i dont want to update..

we can tell frameworks simplify things.. ok.. but how about experiencing it..
how.

1. do things without framework
2. do things with framework..
in all this what matter is our "intent"

to solve customer problem or improve my technical skills

telescope welcome to world of code reviewers from world of programmers..

we are in spring boot and we are in "core java only"
we are learning dao layer.. how only by writing dao layer..

in jpa world.

save .. insert and update
findAll  -- to select all rows..

remember about the product...(framework) it will deviate your from the standard
and tell hey look at "my way of doing things and get addicted later on I will
think how to torture you"...

all the code I showed you are examples of spring framework telling hey get addited
to my way of doing things.. as a technical person your job is to find out
you want to get addicted or not... not addicted is a good way to go..


X+spring = x becomes easier..
I will learn x without spring also first and then learn how to use it with spring..

JPA makes things more easier than the jdbc based stuff...even including JDBCTemplate..
no I hate jpa it makes thigns slow.. ok.. show me data.. show me measurement..

currently our program is kids program.. because in kids world only one table...
and with table whole world will run...

familiar with syntax
of jdbc template.
jpa
that is good enough...


web services what is this..
web services.. two words are there..

web 
services is important
web is next...

web services..

1. is our service layer or business layer working or not.. no It is not working
ok then forget web services..

2. ok our service layer is working.. we have proved it.. why write webservice.
ok  we wrote service layer. i want this ervice layer function to be called
from 

1. other technologies  -- heterogenous
2. other computers..  --distributed..

service layer is on laptop 1
dao layer is on laptop1

i want to call this service function from laptop 2..
how to call it as of now not possible ot call it.
write a webservice on your service function then you can call it...


my service
my dao.
ok...

web services..
what is meaning of web...  web means http usage.. or its cousin..
http or https....

we have comp1 in blore we have comp2 in mysore.
these are connected does it mean it is a web no...
need not be...1960's computers  but we did not use the word web...

if computers connected by using http then we can call it as a web...

web...

web services means.

1. we take a service function
2. put a cover on it.
3. once we put a cover on it, the function now respond to http requests..
4. calling a web servie, calling a function of the service..
5. we need input and output that will come via json... usually...
6. json... standard for representing variables.. acceptable to all langauges..


calling of a service function via http and input and ouput getting represented
via some standard like json is what web services is all about

what is benefit we get.

1. heterogenous... i wrote logic in java, let python guy call it, .net guy call it, jvascript guy
call it...
2. distributed... service can run on system 1 and calling can happen on system 2...

all this possible because
of http and its cousins.. https..
and json..


ok. you can try the practicals now..

1. run the existing code of mine in your system and see
whether it works.
2. convert Task program of yesterday into jpa program.
3. https://spring.io/guides/gs/accessing-data-jpa









































