hope that you are able to code some basic examples in jpa
and check whether it works in spring boot..

all the applications we have built are core java applications...

why write web services.
1. people who write code in other languages will be able to call it..
2. it is distributed.. your service in one comp and calling can happen from other computer.

spring and spring boot.
1. we take a call on architecture.
2. we decide which object should be created by spring.
3. we decide the wiring.
4. we tell spring or spring boot hey give me the object..

while working spring boot or spring.
we should be conscious which objext is there with spring or spring boot
that we can autowire..

intent... to keep things simple because we want to apply.. and not telling other
people I know this...

expand JSOn.. JavaScript Object Notation... 
what is it.. standard for variables..
variables ... data type and its value
json gives you a standard for doing this..
standard advantage, every language agrees with it..


I have json with me.. it means he has a string with him {"key":3,"key":4 }  // map
in every programming language we have to learn how to convert

json into that programming language object.
and that programming language object into json..

we have an object belonging to a data type called X in our java code.
we should know how to convert this object into JSON and vice versa..
good news frameworks will take care of it most of times..

I am building web services program in language X
which framework of language X are you using.

X= java, python
framework == spring boot, 

X=java,python
framework = apache cxf, 

if our service function takes X as input and Y as output..
then web service function also will take X as input and return Y as output...
if our service function is not ready... then we will not have clarify on X and Y
and obviously web service writing would not make sense..

most common problem we are going to get is..
how do we pick input needed from http request.
how do we return output as a part of http response..


http.. expansion. hyper text transfer protocol.

basic things. 
you make a request..  by the client ==modes of request... get, post,put, delete. 
request has to be processed.  ( web services function which will process http request)
response generated..  ( this return type of the function...convention is we return
http status code and the data) .. i am adding two numbers.. i will send the result +
http status code... why....

web services when called from the client.
client wants to know whether things succeeded or not..
way client will judge that usually by looking at http status codes..
4xx.. clients mistake.
5xx.. server mistake..



get, post,put, delete.   == Events in http request...
we are going to register for these events... this is what is called as a web service function..


simple explanation
1. think of web service like a cover on your service layer..
2. if service takes x as input and y as output.. web service function will take x as input
and return y as output  + status codes (preferable)
3. why web service. distributed + my service function becomes usable for all people..
4. remember architecture. that means we know that our service and dao is working already..

in the first phase of web service.
people can have entertainment for reading inputs returning outputs.. thru http request
and response.. since this doubt is there.. first phase dont think of database service...
focus on reading things property from http request.. and returning some hard coded values
in http response..

Tomcat... tomcat is not a server.. it is a container...  plugin...

apache http server  + tomcat ===   http server which supports java web server  side.
IIS +tomcat =http server..

web services.. function we write is a slave to the service function...

web service function will directly call dao.. bad idea.. and bad architecture

in any programming language service and dao should be "core language " level and should
be tied to any presentation..

"write like this onlyh then it will work" --very bad state..


@GetMapping("/generalize")  -- register for the event.. what event

in http mode of request is get.
generalize is the URI.. http URI used to identify this function..

	public String think() // kids satisfaction of seeing
	//inbuilt data types.. lik


WEB SERVICES FUNCTION NICE WORD... GENERALIZE .. ONE MORE EVENT HANLDING SCENARIO..


day 1 theory... 
when we define a function think who is going to call it. in case we are not sure
then dont define the function..

why hello how are you is not getting printed.
because function is not getting called.

why is the think function not getting called.?
think function is event listener function.. so it will get called only
event occurs..

which event..
get mode of request
with the uri..generalize..


open the browser and check whether web service function works. pathetic.. person..
not respecting architecture..

browser is to check makeup .. presentation with html.... and not for checking
web services..

before doing bad things always tell good things and then bad things..
example.. postman was light weight...kept on adding features and made an ant into elephants

in real life web services function will be called from some other
function written in some other programming language..


postman
swagger
insomnia
are all clients which can be used by the web services  function definer to check
whether function is working or not.. but in real life.. consumer of web services
function is another function written by some other person...

web services.
service is chocolate
web service function we are writing is just a cover for the chocolate..

logic is not inside web services function it is inside the service function..

when we call the function we use the name of the function...
when system is calling except in freaky cases.. like java beans naming convention
the function is getting called beucase it has used annotation...

hey this is all stupid why are not going any logic.. relax...logic doing
is already done in service layer and dao layer..

currently we are just focusing on how to read input via http
and how to return response propertly once we know this
then we can wire service inside the web services function and then
call the service function from the web services function..

intent... when there are multiple steps to do something, will I depend on checklist
or will I depend on my "memory"... memory will fail checklist will give repeatability..





what is responseEntity, simple answer inbuilt class..
that means open documentation and read it...I dont understand it is ok read it..

we see a ready made class and we want to create an object of this class.
look at constructor documentation..



ResoponseEntity r =new ResponseEntity();

any object, good to know whether things are mutable or not mutable..

ResponseEntity object..is immutable..
 at time of creation decide what you want to do...

when we are writing web service function do make use of httpstatus code also..
to do that. we need ResponseEntity class in spring framework..

i am doing all this things without thinking what I will write in service, what i will write in DAO
web services is not the time to think about service.. that should be already done before we come
to web service..

I will write a stupid web services program.
what is proof of the stupidity
answer i will do logic inside the web services program..


when we come to web services program...
1. we know our service function is working..
2. but if we are new to web services. http can create lot of entertainment...
we dont know how to pick an object from http request.
we may not know how to set security
we may not know how to set a http status code.. along with response... 
when this entertainment comes. stay away from the service and write  a simple web services
function and just focus on the entertainment got..


when we get a doubt can we write smallest program possible to clarify the doubt...
poc writing..

String s ="hello";
String s1 = s.toUpperCase();
system.out.println(s1);

hello will appear in lower case only.. why...

1. we did not open stirng class documentation
2. we did not see documentation of touPpercase..


all web services program in any programming language
is a simple event handling program.. for http based request..

only things..
figure out how to take input from http request.. pathvariable, request param, requestbody, file upload
while returning response.do ensure you return http status code.. because caller of the function
expects it...

ok we reached 3/5 in web services

1. we are able to read http requests.
2. we are able to send response.
3. we are able to validate input
4. we are able to apply some security...

ok... next job.
wire service in the web services class.
and call service functions from the web services function...
it is over..

practically
0. webservicespoc  project works in your system or not..
1. calculator as a web service..
2. try to understand the code present in
\v2soft\codesample\phase4restwithmockservice

checklist

1. database jpa
2. spring boot programming
3. postman..

programmer must able to convert English into functions and variables

Thank you
















