today we will look at JWT
and then there will be some assignments on JWT
and unit testing .

hopefully you could get assingments working..

1. corejava code..
accscenario is a package... figure out how to write junit tests and Mockito in this code
based on syntax what we know..

2. share you a link.. patience to get that link working and understand the code..
JWT

see whether you can get a random number 
https://api.random.org/json-rpc/4/basic
https://razorpay.com/docs/api/

what kind of security people prefer..

Those who insult security as just a technology will suffer...
security  = technology + process.

In the coding there will be lot of stuff.. we should not get confused.. framework opinion..

JWT

1. on what logic will you issue a token..
2. what will token contain, where all you plan to read the token..
3. what will be expiry of the token..

how is user authenticated, that has got nothing to with JWT
yesterday example.. we put the user and password information in the code itself
it come from a database, it could come from naming server...


Session.. this has nothing with JWT..

we know meaning of
1. event 
2. web  --http usage
3. cloud availability of resource on demand, distributed.. calling functions between two systems..
4. session.. in http

HttpSession
1. some information that needs to survive over multiple requests of a particular user..

example i making a request 1, i am giving an information called X. we get response.. Y
from Y we are making another request... at time point of time if we want X to be available . we must
have put X into a session..

when in doubt dont use a session.
if we use a session, then 100% we have to prove.

1. for a particular client.
2. there are multiple requests.
3. information needs to survive over the multiple requests..

at some point may be we will remove the session data or it may not be available
if we close the browser... or invalidate the session..


login.. we give userid... login request is processed, may be userid is put into a session..
postlogin page.. in postlogin page we tell compose mail.. this is a new request... at this time
we have to see whether userid is present in session or not... if present then we assume we logged in

for issuing JWT token also.

1. at what point of time you want to issue a JWT Token.
2. where all  plan to check this jwt token.. the person who is giving the request...
must supply the token..
3. at some point of token needs to be invalidated..

zoom out.. who will take responsibility for security
not every programmer in a project... there project wide process as to what security
code needs to adher to..

usually it is independent of our logic..
f1
f2
f3

f1 should accessed without logging in
f2 should be accessed by userX who is not an admin
f3 should be accessed by user who is an admin

coding of JWT..
there will be lot of classes.. nearly most of these function in this classes will not be called
by us, it will called by the system... Event driven...













Day 1... rule no 1 for coding do know the architecture.
what is meaning of knowing architecture I know the models.


who are you , how will i know.

1. user information is present in some database..
table name is userstry 


if you see , we have written this.. it is understood that function of Y which we defined
we are not going to call it system will call it under some circumstance..
class X implements Y.. 

we are using spring boot 3.x and 2.x...if you tell 2.x.. again syntax will change..

whenever we see interface being implemented by us, what method does we cannot predict
so open documentation..

general way of reducing risk in domain is risky, is gamifying the domain..
2000

when we see many functions I will get confused which function will start first...
correct answer leanr the architecture.. no i wont learn. ok then atleast write logs
inside function and see for consistency..


how do you prove your service function is business specific service function


where will the service function be called from.. 1947 answer.. controller funtions..

whenever you see function definition, think who is going to call it..


if your webservice is running in www.abc.com
somebody www.def.com should invoke the web service...
rule no 1 is never trust the client.. if security is important..

subjective opinion
yaml is one more way of configuring things...
properties.
xml

Spring creates objects and wires them... theory
order of object creation is not guaranteed. you should not be bothered about that but
wiring should happen correctly we should check..

with respect to any process. in a company
best to imitate first and later on think of improving it.. so we know the context..



{
    "id": 152,
    "fullName": "ramesh suresh",
    "email": "ramesh@suresh.com",
    "password": "$2a$10$80qdAZKj2JPY7Ncp5EXsa.Hwh5.Q4wZnRwOEVsc3eg2YE7gyKxgJ.",
    "createdAt": "2025-01-24T03:33:31.928+00:00",
    "updatedAt": "2025-01-24T03:33:31.928+00:00",
    "authorities": [],
    "username": "ramesh@suresh.com",
    "enabled": true,
    "credentialsNonExpired": true,
    "accountNonExpired": true,
    "accountNonLocked": true
}

today accumulation of information has lost value, so question what are we doing with the information..

please attempt the following.

1.jwtpoc project, import and make it work and see whether it runs..
2.adding of two numbers controller, copy the controller into same package where you existing code
is working and see add works thru jwt token and subtract does not need any security
			1 and 2 is our own "pet" code

3. Random number   ( how people are implementing security)
https://api.random.org/json-rpc/4/basic  --low risk
https://razorpay.com/docs/api/

4. pain killer..
pleaseworkij folder has got a folder called accscenario, this is package...
figure out how to write unit test case for it based on whatever we know in JUnit and Mockito.
































